
## Key Cloud Concepts

**High availability** - the ability to keep services up and running for long periods of time, with minimal downtime, depending on the service in question.

**Scalability** - the ability to increase or decrease the amount of resources allocated for a workload. Scaling out is the addition of resources to service a workload. Scaling up is the addition of capabilities to manage an increase in demand to an existing resource. Scalability doesn’t have to be done automatically. 

**Elasticity** - The ability to automatically or dynamically increase or decrease resources as required. Elastic resources match the current needs, and resources are added or removed automatically to meet future needs when it’s needed. **The difference between scalability and elasticity is that elasticity is done automatically.**

**Agility** - The ability to react quickly. Cloud services can allocate and deallocate resources quickly. They are provided on-demand via self-service, so vast amounts of computing resources can be provisioned in minutes. There is no manual intervention in provisioning or de-provisioning services. 

**Fault Tolerance** - The ability to remain up and running even in the event of a component (or service) no longer functioning. Usually, when a component fails, a backup component takes its place, this is called redundancy and it helps to achieve fault tolerance.

**Disaster Recovery** - The ability to recover from an event which has taken down a cloud service. 

**Global Reach** - The ability to reach audiences around the globe. Cloud services can have a presence in various regions across the globe, which you and your customer can access, giving you a presence in those regions even though you may not have any infrastructure in that region.

**Customer Latency Capabilities** - If a customer is experiencing some form of slowness when accessing or using a cloud service it is called a latency. Cloud services have the ability to deploy resources in datacenters around the globe, which addresses any customer latency issues.

**Predictive cost considerations** - users have the ability to predict the costs that will be incurred for a particular cloud service that is being used or one that the customer is planning to deploy. The user can also perform analysis based on planned growth.

**Technical skill requirements and considerations** - Getting a workload up and running with cloud services demands less technical resources than having IT teams build and maintain a physical infrastructure for handling the same workload. A user can be an expert in the application they want to run without requiring skills to build and maintain the underlying hardware and software infrastructure.

**Increased productivity** - Cloud Computing eliminates the need for setting up hardware, installing software, updating and patching software, and many more management chores so the IT team can focus on more important tasks.

**Security** - Cloud providers offer a broad set of policies, technologies, controls, and expert technology skills that can provide better security than most organizations can otherwise achieve.
